# A+ v1.18 Release Notes

January 2023

## A+ v1.18.0

* [A+ v1.18.0rc1](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.18.0rc1)
* [MOOC-Grader v1.17.1](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.17.1)
* [Git Manager v1.17.2](https://github.com/apluslms/gitmanager/releases/tag/v1.17.2)
* [a-plus-rst-tools v1.5.2](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus-rst-tools/releases/tag/v1.5.2)

### New features

* A+ LTI Tool v1.3
  - A+ may be used as an external tool from LTI platforms such as Moodle.
  - There are some unfinished parts left in this feature, for example,
    the LTI grading service is missing for Acos server and JSAV assignments as well as
    other assignment services that create new, graded submissions
    by sending the submission data directly to the backend assignment service.
    (That is, the browser frontend does not send the submission data to the A+ server,
    but to the assignment service, which forwards the data to A+
    to create a new, graded submission in the end.)
  - LTI stands for Learning Tools Interoperability, a standard protocol.

#### How to use A+ LTI Tool as a teacher

The target course instance must exist in A+ before you may connect to it from an LTI platform.
You must have the teacher role in the A+ course instance in order to connect to it.

The LTI platform may connect to the following in A+:

* whole course instance
* one course module (exercise round)
* one chapter including its child assignments
* one assignment

**Moodle**

* Create an LTI activity in a Moodle course workspace.
* Select A+ from the preconfigured services.
* Select the target A+ course in the "select content" menu (whole course or content inside it).
* Enable the user's name and email.
* Accept grades from the tool.

#### For system administrators and developers

Instructions for setting up the A+ LTI Tool:

* Moodle admin: create the preconfigured LTI service for A+.
* A+ LTI Tool setup in the Django admin view: add the LTI platforms and the RSA keys.
