# A+ v1.13 Release Notes

February 2022

## A+ v1.13.0

* [A+ v1.13.0](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.13.0)
* [MOOC-Grader v1.13.0](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.13.0)
* [Git Manager v1.13.0](https://github.com/apluslms/gitmanager/releases/tag/v1.13.0)
* [a-plus-rst-tools v1.5.0 to be added](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus-rst-tools/releases/)


### Changes

* New mass regrade feature that can send all submissions in an assignment to automatic regrading.
* Further improvements to the teacher's deviations usability after v1.12.
  - New added deviations may override existing deviations.
  - Select students by tags.
  - Select multiple deviations to delete at once.
  - Enter deadline extensions in days, hours and minutes instead of only minutes.
  - Deviation list was moved from the tab under the Edit course section to a new section in the left-side course menu.
* Several optimizations to database queries that make many pages load slightly faster.
* Inspect submission page:
  - Submitted files are listed in tabs instead of a dropdown menu.
  - Submitted binary files are not rendered as garbled text in the web page.


### For system administrators and developers

* Updated to the Django framework v3.2 LTS in the MOOC-Grader and Git manager.
* Git Manager: fix invalid CourseUpdate.status model field definition.
  - The old status field definition was broken as it set incorrect choices for the status.
    Those values exceeded the max length constraint set on the field.
  - The old migration of the status field was fixed.
    A new migration was added that sets the correct choices.

