# A+ v1.11 Release Notes

October 2021

## A+ v1.11.0

* [A+ v1.11.0](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.11.0)
* [MOOC-Grader v1.10.3](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.10.3)
  (No new major changes since v1.10.)
* [a-plus-rst-tools v1.4.2](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus-rst-tools/releases/tag/v1.4.2)
  (New options for the new delayed feedback A+ feature.)


### Changes

* New assessment user interface for teachers
  - Teacher's inspect submission page has been revamped.
    It is easier to write staff feedback to the student and the submitted files may be browsed while writing the feedback.
  - Teacher may mark a submission as final in the inspect page.
    It makes the points of that submission final even if another submission has more points.
    The All results page (course points page) shows the final points, and similarly for other views.
  - The all submissions list of an exercise may be switched to show each submitter (student)
    only once instead of listing every submission for each student.
  - From the exercise submission list, teacher may start manual assessment,
    which browses through all students who have not yet been manually assessed.
    The inspect submission page has a link to the next student.
* Delayed feedback feature
  - When the exercise is configured to use delayed feedback,
    students do not see the points or feedback of submissions until the feedback is triggered.
  - Students may check the content of the submission while feedback is hidden.
  - Exercise model solution visibility to students may be controlled with the same reveal options as submission feedback.
  - Available reveal modes:
    * `manual`: Never revealed, unless a teacher manually reveals it in A+ exercise settings.
    * `immediate`: Always revealed. This is the old behaviour and the default.
    * `time`: Revealed at a specific time given as a parameter.
    * `deadline`: Revealed after the exercise deadline, and the possible deadline extension granted to the student.
      This is the default setting for revealing model solutions.
      An optional delay after the deadline may be set with a parameter.
    * `deadline_all`: Revealed after the exercise deadline,
      and all deadline extensions granted to any student on the course.
      An additional delay may optionally be provided as an argument.
    * `completion`: Revealed after the student has used all submissions or achieved full points from the exercise.
  - Exercise grading mode may be set to "best" or "last" in order to change which submission determines the final score.
    "Best" is the old behaviour, which uses the best points.
    "Last" uses the last submission that the student has made in the exercise.
    "Last" is the default when delayed feedback is used.
  - The feedback and model solution reveal rules may be configured in the RST directives
    `submit`, `questionnaire` and `aplusmeta` with options `reveal-submission-feedback` and `reveal-model-solutions`.
    Course-wide defaults may be set in `conf.py` with `reveal_submission_feedback` and `reveal_model_solutions`.
    See [a-plus-rst-tools README](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus-rst-tools/blob/master/README.md#defining-reveal-rules)
    for details and examples.
* The course menu on the left side of the course pages may be collapsed in order to leave more room for the content.
* Added the version number of the A+ platform to the site top navigation bar and the footer.

### Under-the-hood changes

* Show the user's enrolment role (student, assistant, teacher) in API endpoints such as the user points.
* New A+ API endpoints for creating new course instances and modifying them.
  They require admin privileges.
  - `POST /api/v2/courses/`
  - `PUT /api/v2/courses/<course_id>/`

### For system administrators

* It is recommended to change the Memcached backend.
  The pip package python-memcached is deprecated.
  Django supports two other Memcached backends.

### For developers

* Added Django Debug Toolbar.
  It is disabled by default.
  See the
  [run-aplus-front README](https://github.com/apluslms/run-aplus-front/blob/1.11/README.md)
  for instructions.


## A+ v1.11.1 patch

* [A+ v1.11.1](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.11.1)

## A+ v1.11.2 patch

* [A+ v1.11.2](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.11.2)

## A+ v1.11.3 patch

* [A+ v1.11.3](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.11.3)

## A+ v1.11.4 patch

* [A+ v1.11.4](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.11.4)

## MOOC-Grader v1.10.4 patch

* [MOOC-Grader v1.10.4](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.10.4)

## MOOC-Grader v1.10.5 patch

* [MOOC-Grader v1.10.5](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.10.5)

