# A+ v1.9 Release Notes

June 2021

## A+ v1.9.0

* [A+ v1.9](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.9.0)
* [MOOC-Grader v1.9](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.9.0)
* [a-plus-rst-tools v1.4](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus-rst-tools/releases/tag/v1.4)

Brief summary of the most notable changes, in addition to smaller fixes and enhancements:

* Refactoring the results table for better efficiency.
* Course teachers can now be edited in the course settings.
* New API endpoint for presenting exercises in tree format.
* Support for Haka login from external organizations. Users from other organizations cannot access courses that are marked for internal use only. Users are still reminded in UI, that in most cases (open university, Fitech, etc.) user should always use Aalto account, so that the results can be registered.
* The browsable API now contains documentation for all available operations of each endpoint.
* Course instances can now be cloned partially by choosing individual parts (e.g. exercises) to be left out of the clone.
* Exercises now indicate the allowed group sizes.
* Questionnaire fixes:
  - The feedback for selected checkboxes is rendered under the question after all checkboxes by default. It worked like that before A+ v1.8, whereas v1.8 rendered the feedback directly under the selected checkbox. If you want to keep the feedback under each checkbox, you may enable the option checkbox-feedback in the pick-any directive.
  - Questionnaire model solution includes the feedback for correct answers.
  - Feedback is shown for correct answers. In A+ v1.8, there were cases when the feedback was not shown to correct answers at all.
  - If the questionnaire setting `reveal-model-at-max-submissions` is used, feedback is shown for the last submission when the correct answers are also revealed. (Previously, the feedback was excluded in the last submission attempt.)
* jQuery upgraded from v1.12 to v3.6. If your course contains custom JavaScript code that uses jQuery, you may need to update it because some jQuery APIs have changed.
  - The `.size()` method was removed. Use the `.length` property instead.
  - `.andSelf()` removed, use `.addBack()`
  - https://jquery.com/upgrade-guide/3.0/
  - https://jquery.com/upgrade-guide/3.5/
* Add sitemap to A+. This is used by search engines such as Google. This should improve the visibility of public courses in Google Search. Note that search engines can only access pages that require no authentication at all, i.e., courses with "view content to: public".
* New a-plus-rst-tools version v1.4 supports Sphinx v4.1. We have previously used Sphinx v1.6. Sphinx 4.1 outputs HTML5, which changes some structures in the built HTML files, but usually this does not cause issues in the courses.
  - If the course wants to use Sphinx 4.1, A+ admins must enable it for the course in the server. This is a temporary solution until we can provide a better way for each course to define their build environment.
* MOOC-Grader: Django version upgraded to 2.2.

## A+ v1.9.1

* [A+ v1.9.1](https://github.com/apluslms/a-plus/releases/tag/v1.9.1)
* [MOOC-Grader v1.9.1](https://github.com/apluslms/mooc-grader/releases/tag/v1.9.1)

